# Indoor_Localization_Over_Wifi

Diploma thesis of Yannis Lazaridis, under the supervision of Manolis Maragoudakis @ University of the Aegean, Department of Information and Communication Systems Engineering.

Throughout recent years extensive research is done as regards to creating indoor positioning systems using wireless networks infrastructures. Utilizing effectively network infrastructures for positioning both indoors and outdoors is serving as a means for considerable savings in both monetary costs and in costs of deployment of a positioning infrastructure. The objective of this thesis is to develop a system that can localize an object in a room just by obtaining signal strength and its angle of arrival if a Wi-Fi antenna. In particular, the object, which is a robot (PC-BOT 914), has been equipped with directional antenna 2.4 GHz which rotates and gets angle and signal strength measurements of the Wi-Fi antenna in a mapped room. Then, with statistical analysis techniques, i.e. Bayesian networks, signal strength-angle-location relation is being modeled. Inference on the Bayesian network resulted in predicting the point it is located. In order to build the model, we mapped specific interior environment and placed measuring points for the creation of the dataset. For data logging, an application that measures the parameters at each point and stored them in a database was built. Finally, an application was developed in order to display the predictive abilities model on actual use, i.e. with the robot.
